### Note: All information below is fictional to demonstrate my documentation interview techniques based on an amalgam of interviews across my experience ###

## Source: ##
John Doe, Director – Contracted Services  
Jane Doe, Director – Contract Creation
## Purpose: ##
To identify key processes, risks, and internal controls associated with the creation, management, and monitoring of agency contracts
## Procedure: ##
1. Project Manager Martin Torres met with John Doe and Jane Doe on 02/29/2019 at 10 AM. Project Manager documented the interview in the “Results” below as Mr. Doe and Ms. Doe responded to the questions.
2. Project Manager noted controls and risks related to agency contract development, management, and monitoring.
## Conclusion: ##
### Project Manager noted the following key processes related to the creation, management, and monitoring of contracts: ###
The overall process for open enrollment contracts is:
1. Solicitations are posted.
2. Contractors respond to solicitation.
3. Initial Qualification (IQ) Review is performed.
4. If IQ Review is passed, subject matter expert performs Technical Review (TR).
5. If TR is passed, solicitation information is passed to Contract Manager.
6. Contract Manager setups up contract in Enterprise Contracting Manager (ECM).
7. Contract Lead performs quality check of initial information in ECM.
8. Contract Manager obtains necessary reviews from Legal, manager, and business area(s).
9. Nightly batch transfers contract information from ECM to Financial System.
10. Financial System pays contractor monthly.
	
### Project Manager noted the following controls related to the creation, management, and monitoring of Contracts: ###
- ECM has edit checks that require data elements, including accurate expiration date, solicitation number, and auto-populates Contract Manager assignment.
- Contract Managers use templates for contracts when possible.
- ECM has required workflow controls to prevent steps from being skipped.
- Contract Leads monitor and review data entered by Contract Manager.
- ECM produces 30-,60-,90-, and 360-day reports for contract expiration/renewal for Contract Managers.
- Contract Numbers are auto-generated by ECM, based on the department number and assigned sequentially.

### Project Manager noted the following risks related to the creation, management, and monitoring of Contracts: ###
- Contract Managers are not cross-trained and do not have backups. Contract renewal is based on previous assignment and causes delays when a Contract Manager leaves.
- Contracts may not be communicated to the Financial System accurately, had issues last summer with new contracts. Ms. Doe thinks it may have been an IT issue, while Mr. Doe thinks it may have been a specific Finance Analyst.
- The "Comments" field is required, but does not have specific edit checks to ensure the field is entered. This control was implemented recently and has not been verified to be filled for all contracts.
  - Audit Note: Test could use SQL to look for null/blank fields to identify empty records.
- IT Contracts are not tracked by Contracted Services
